---
layout: default
title: Tractus3D T3500SE
parent: 3D Printers
nav_order: 2
---

Printer info:
Manufacturer: Tractus3d (now Nexum3d)
Model: TX3500SE / NX3500SE
Manufacturer phone: (Maybe) +31 85 301 6436
The company might be out of business, no methods of contact have worked.


## Things the Tractus needs:
- Firmware update (pull the boards and follow the instructions [Here](https://docs.duet3d.com/User_manual/Machine_configuration/SBC_setup#h-1-flash-the-image-file))
- Grease/lube for linear rails 
	- WD-40 Specialist Protective White Lithium Grease
	- Super Lube 21030 Synthetic Grease
- Different sized nozzles
	- Ideally, nozzles for the Slice Engineering hotend that came with the printer
	- [x] Macros setting the z offset and extrusion rate
- Bungee cord for Bowden tube support
- Better firmware settings for more reliable prints

### Firmware
# MAKE SURE YOU FOLLOW THE G-CODE LIBRARY [HERE](https://docs.duet3d.com/User_manual/Reference/Gcodes#g-commands)
[Firmware settings with my changes](obsidian://open?vault=Obsidianv1&file=CONFIG.md)

There's still things that need to be changed/configured, but the config.g file above has a bunch of comments explaining my setting changes. But if there are no comments answering your question, make sure you look at the Duet3d gcode library.

For the section about speeds, motor currents, etc. I mention part of the gcode being written by AI. That's because there was a bunch of issues printing a calibration piece and I suspected it was due to stuttering. When fed into a GPT model, it suggested reducing the speeds to make the nozzle more positionally stable. It also suggested the values you see in there. I will, however, change back to the original once I have confirmed a calibration print succeeds. I have a more up-to-date config on my laptop but it needs to be pushed to the Tractus.

### Macros
The 0.8mm nozzle and 0.4mm nozzle macros look like this:
The extruder values were computed using [this](https://ellis3dp.com/Print-Tuning-Guide/articles/extruder_calibration.html) guide
```gcode 
; 0.8mm Nozzle
G31 P500 X0 Y0 Z18.9
M92 X800 Y800 Z800 E569.4
```

```gcode 
; 0.4mm Nozzle
G31 P500 X0 Y0 Z20.7
M92 X800 Y800 Z800 E581.323
```
